so a lot of people ask me Oh April is
this workout good for my body type for a
short body tiny like Barry's bootcamp
are like they'll just ask me like it's
cycling good is this good so I thought
it'd be really fun to review some of the
workouts from popular Fitness
influencers online and see if they are
good workout strategies for petite women
so today I picked out someone who I
really enjoy watching her name is
Natasha Ocean I think that's how you say
it tweaks a lot of fitness and nutrition
and fit lifestyle content I think it's
really fun I like personality I like
watching her content but does does not
mean that it's always going to be the
right advice for me as a petite woman so
I'm not necessarily following it I just
kind of like consuming her content so I
thought that we could review one of her
workout videos today specifically she
has this video I found that's how she
structures her workouts for a week and
this was some time ago so it's might not
be what she's doing now
but I thought it'd be fun to watch it
together and then I can review it in my
time and tell you guys what things would
be good as a petite girl what things
might not be a good strategy as petite
girl etc and in general she has really
great advice but you know sometimes
she's eating 3,000 calories and while
I've gotten my calories up to 2,000 I
don't think I'd ever be able to get that
high while still keeping a low body fat
percentage or just feeling good I don't
think I could physically eat how much
food slight disclaimer before I begin I
just feel like I have to say this any
type of activity is always better than
none
so in no way would I ever want you guys
to think that you're doing it wrong
because there is no one right way to
reach your goal to feeling good in your
body to feeling fit I just give you guys
my best tips for optimizing it from a
science standpoint but there is no best
way so
I just feel like I need to say that
because I don't want you guys ever feel
scared to try something new or I don't
want you guys to stop doing activities
that make you happy because I've said
something about it not being conducive
to your body type as a petite woman for
example I talked a lot about minimizing
cardio is petite but if you love to run
girl run everywhere that's fine if you
love doing certain things this is in no
way telling you to stop doing those
things because at the end of the day the
goal is happiness and health I just want
you guys to keep an open mind and
obviously take everything I say and
apply it to you and your life and what
would make you happy and not just as a
black-and-white this is good and this is
bad is nothing in life or health or
fitness or nutrition is really like that
anyways so without further ado let's
watch Natasha and see what she has to
say about how she start her structured
his/her workouts for the week let's hop
in can you hop into a video I don't know
[Music]
what came back to my channel I want to
show you guys what a week of my training
that's life and all you guys have been
asking me it's the same week we add
loads of stuff going on so it kind of
just do you what I feel like how much
any time and you're trying to fit things
in depending on that yeah we will pause
right there at this point in Natasha's
fitness journey she could probably
afford to do that I can almost guarantee
you guys early on when she was first
getting to Fitness she probably did not
do random things each week it's really
hard to build muscle if you're just
doing random things each week and I will
say that even though she's doing random
ish workouts or whatever feels good
each week she's probably repeating very
similar movement patterns each week
because she knows what she's doing now
one of the biggest mistakes I see women
make is doing really different programs
and kind of skipping programs week to
week or month to month and not sticking
with a program for a long time it takes
time to build up muscle and then improve
the metabolism increase the metabolism
so first off the bat I think I know what
she's saying she's doing what feels good
but I could see how someone who's new to
fitness would interpret that as oh I'll
just do something different each week
when really you should really be
sticking to a progressive program so
you're able to build muscle because if
you're not working your muscles the same
ones consistently you're not going to
challenge them and then you're not going
to grow the muscle and they're not gonna
boost your metabolism so that's just
something off the bat that I would say
if you our goal is to improve your
metabolism and build muscle you're going
to need to stick to something we tweak
and it doesn't have to be the exact same
workouts but it does need to use similar
movements and have a general structure
or an approach that makes sense for your
goal I
today well I'm gonna do calisthenics
wife Alice say this is only the time
feel my strength and I just wonder some
of my body weight leads I always try to
be like the highest things back and they
would just get the other stuff
eventually oh my god
[Music]
okay Sam I regretted it until they do it
with the bottom run that's that's
Italian to do the liquor with a balance
right
I think as you can tell by Rio it's easy
like more and more force to again I
think
[Music]
she's training one day of her week for
calisthenics
so calisthenics is bodyweight strength
so your training doing inversions like
handstands you're you're basically using
your body as the weights in a more
extreme fashion in like Pilates or yoga
this is like gymnastics essentially and
I would say that for a tall body type
for any body type this stuff is fun I
actually did some calisthenics yesterday
morning I am so sore by the way in my
thoracic spine my t spine and my neck
from doing inversions and stuff but it's
fun right but if you were to train this
way as a lifestyle you would end up with
the body of sort of like a gymnast which
it's there's nothing wrong with I mean I
the body of a gymnast is powerful
incredible amazing beautiful thing but
not everyone wants to have the type of
muscle that a petite gymnast has because
it is rather it's a lot of muscle I mean
you get really really strong doing
gymnastic type moves however you're not
really because it's a lot of compound
when you're doing calisthenics you're
using a lot of muscles at once you're
using your core all your stabilizers
prime movers the big and small muscles
you're using it all what that resultant
is less targeted you're putting the
muscle on universally like all over your
body rather than in targeted areas for
example if you were to go and lift in
the gym with a targeted program you
could target your shoulders for example
and you can't spot reduce fat but you
can kind of spot to increase muscle by
doing certain exercises focusing on body
parts that you want to build up so this
type of training is really fun it's
really good for your health is it going
to give you muscle and strategic places
to help with like the hourglass figure
no it's gonna put muscle on equally
everywhere which you may or may not be a
little
going for I personally would limit
training calisthenics if you love it too
once a day once a day don't do that it
would be every day do you like once in a
while if you love it do it all the time
but if you're not looking for that type
of body
now obviously don't do it all the time I
do it once in a while for fun to just
like have fun with fitness but I am well
aware and I used to be a gymnast so I
know this if I train like this every day
I would look very round like I'd be a
fall of muscle and strength and well
that's really cool and I've had my
athletic years being really really
muscular like that it's just not how I
want to look today and that's my own
personal like preference having like in
there and yeah there's nothing wrong
with it it's just not typically what my
clients are coming to me asking for me
to help them with so keep that in mind
for calisthenics today - she has some
functional training this looks good so
far start compound movement
[Music]
it's quite new for me it's very exciting
action type of deal in that way I did it
if you don't everyone else is doing
you're doing the route and you need to
make sure like I always feel myself at
the next today
[Music]
yeah so what she just said big calorie
energy burner same thing she's right and
what that also means is that it's gonna
boost your metabolism it's metabolically
challenging to do total body exercises
with weights like this she had some jump
movements which is plyometrics she had
like straight weight lifting with the
cleans she was doing a lot of different
planes of motion so this is really
really good for petite women total body
workouts that are working specific
muscles while you're doing them but
total body in the sense that in one
exercise you're doing a couple different
things and like for example compound
exercise like the clean she was doing
the beginning that's working multiple
joints are moving so there's multiple
muscles attached so this joints moving
really gets the heart rate up really
burns calories and it also helps you
build muscle because you are training
with weights so I love this type of
training this is kind of what I would do
actually myself pretty regularly it's
just more of a functional approach with
weights
this is what I'm lacking alright so we
can see now to her goals are more
calisthenic based right now which would
make sense okay so now we can see she
has a day dedicated to actual gymnastics
which I hadn't watched this video yet so
that makes a lot of sense why she'd be
do kept doing calisthenics early on in
the week she's working on her gymnastic
she wants to do more cool tricks and
stuff which is so fun and I totally get
that this is a typical trajectory for
someone who has been in fitness for many
many years and gets bored doing gym
workouts and also they've already built
up a lot of muscle and lost a lot of fat
and they're just like looking for other
ways to say challenge so I get that
that's where she's at in her journey
really cool really fun for petite women
isn't going to necessarily be the path
for you probably not at first unless you
weren't gymnast and you're trying to get
back into it and it totally depends on
your goal if your goal is to do the
tricks and do a backflip and put on
Instagram then yeah you can train like
that and totally you can totally do that
if your goal is to lose some fat tone up
learning the basics of weightlifting
feel confident in the gym I would
recommend a different route one that
makes sense more for your goals and
you'll see a theme emerging here how you
train should align with your goals so
you should have a strategy you should
have a plan and it should make sense
like hers make sense she's training for
gymnastics so she's doing calisthenics
and gymnastics and other
types of things that kind of transfer
into this sport wall house it's good
today atrophy glutes and hamstrings
[Music]
okay so for her day five she's doing
hypertrophy which is a bodybuilding type
of workout hypertrophy means the number
of reps mostly are between eight and
fifteen reps and this is going to allow
the muscle to grow this is totally
totally right up our alley this is
really really good because it stimulates
the muscles to grow and you'll build
muscle and no he will not build muscle
in the Hulk sense I mean look at Natasha
she does she trained like this for the
majority to get the body she has now she
trained most of like this with some
athletic workouts so it's not going to
be like literally like oh you do this
rep range and then your muscles start to
blow up not not at all it's not gonna go
down like that
I can assure you so this is actually a
really good technique or approach I do
hypertrophy for probably almost all my
workouts except for the fun ones I mean
it's fun though I love it it's just very
predictable after a certain point if
you've been doing it for many many years
but it's what gets the job done it's
what helps you lose fat what's help you
it's what helps you get this shape look
strong and curvy and fit that's what you
need is muscle when we watch Fitness
influencers we often think that we need
to copy their workout routine because if
they're doing that and they look like
that then they we must follow what
they're doing and we'll get the same
result right that's the thought process
and it's very easy to fall into this
thought process however the thing that
people
not realizing and that was why it's
really important to consider this is
that what they are currently doing now
whatever a fitness expert is doing today
is not what they did to get the body
they have today typically our routines
change throughout the years
whatever they did when they first
started to get the body they have now
it's gonna look different than what
they're doing now so the moral story
here is you don't need to go from point
A to Z you need to go from A to B you're
still gonna get amazing results you'll
get even better results going on your
own journey on your own path because
it's going to instill lifestyle and you
it's going to give you lots of room for
growth and you won't be trying to go you
don't get frustrated trying to do
something extreme in the first month of
your life your new lifestyle so really
you don't need to do some like crazy six
days a week training hypertrophy lifting
all this weight you just need to start
where you're at pick up some weights and
then slowly use progressive overload
meaning increase your weights over time
and see where the journey takes you
follow a structured program so it's
really important I think to recognize
that yes they are here but everything in
life happens a few months later when we
make a decision today we either reap the
rewards or suffer from the consequences
a few months later it's like a
trickle-down effect so when you look at
fitness routines and and everything how
her body looks today is not a reflection
of the workout she did today it's a
reflection of a lifestyle she had a few
months ago even years ago and what she
consistently did during that time period
okay so that's really really really key
to think about and also this is just
lighten up on yourself and remember that
everyone is on a different path on
Instagram or wherever in life they're on
a different journey and you're on your
own as well so that's okay and you just
got to go to the next point for you and
not the next point for somebody else the
other thing I mention is she broke she
broke this hypertrophy workouts out into
lower body only for petite women I would
recommend starting with like a high
perch or if you workout its total body
so doing your whole body upper body
lower body once you've gone more into
life
you can split into more complicated
training regimens such as upper body and
lower body days that's what I do now I
have two upper body into our body days
of course is not what I did
when I first started I did years with
total body workouts and it will really
get you results it will help you burn
fat get your metabolism up build muscle
and then you can continue to progress on
to something more advanced
okay so I think that was everything she
worked out I think five days in that
video I kind of skipped through so I'm
not sure I think that that's a good
number of days to work out of course
it's on me more frequent side things and
you don't need to start there you can
start with literally one day is better
than nothing start with three days a
week you can see results before I am
training right now four days a week and
it feels really good on my body recovery
and sleep is really really important for
fat loss getting your cortisol the
stress hormone levels down and if you're
constantly working out you're going to
have high levels of cortisol and it's
going to be really hard to lose stubborn
fat so I like that she has that kind of
balanced approach and overall I love
that she has like a fun approach to
fitness she's doing what she wants for
her she's trying to do cool gymnastic
stuff that's awesome in terms of her
petite women I would focus most on the
total body hypertrophy building muscle
workout that's gonna get you where you
want to go most likely losing fat gain
metabolism up through building muscle so
you guys I hope this was helpful if
there's any fitness influencers that you
want me to review drop that note in the
comments let me know whose videos or I
can even do what I eat in a day reviews
since I'm also a nutritionist let me
know I think this could be kind of fun
and finally we can look through content
through the lens of what's good for us
as petite women and if you like this
please give it a like and subscribe for
more content and I'll see you guys next
Monday as always have a great day bye